docs/configuration/routers/index.md, before:

# Routers

We're almost there! The last step is to configure the `AuthX` object that will wire the user manager, the authentication classes and let us generate the actual **API routes**.

## Configure `AuthX`

Configure `AuthX` object with all the elements we defined before. More precisely:

* `UserManager`: Dependency callable getter to inject the
    user manager class instance. See [UserManager](../core/index.md).
* `auth_backends`: List of authentication backends. See [Authentication](../auth/index.md).
* `user_model`: Pydantic model of a user.
* `UserInRegister` – User model for registering.
* `UserInCreate` – User model for creating.
* `UserInLogin` – User model for logging in.
* `UserPayload` – User model for payloads.
* `SocialInCreate` – Social User model for creating.

```py
from AuthX import Authentication

Authentication = Authentication(
    debug=True,
    base_url="http://localhost:8000",
    site="http://localhost:8000",
    database_name="authx",
    callback_url="http://localhost:8000/callback",
    access_cookie_name="access_token",
    refresh_cookie_name="refresh_token",
    private_key="private.pem",
    public_key="public.pem",
    access_expiration=3600,
    refresh_expiration=86400,
    smtp_username=None,
    smtp_host=None,
    smtp_password=None,
    smtp_tls=False,
    display_name="AuthX",
    recaptcha_secret=None,
    social_creds=None,
    social_providers=None,
)
```

__Note:__ We gonna discuss what we define in `Authentication` Next.

!!! info
    We Have also an other configuration option, `AuthX` and `User`.

## Available routers

This helper class will let you generate useful routers to setup the authentication system. Each of them is **optional**, so you can pick only the one that you are interested in! Here are the routers provided:

* [Authentication](authentication.md): Provides `/login` and `/logout` also `/register` and some other useful endpoints based on [Authentication Provider](../auth/index.md).
* [Administration](.administration.md): Provides all the services that an Admin can use to manage the users. (`/blacklist`, `/blackout`, `kick`)
* [Password](password.md): Provides `/forgot` and `/reset` and `/set` endpoints to reset the password.
* [social](social.md): Provides `/social` and `/social/callback` endpoints to login with social networks, relate to [Social Provider](../social/index.md).
* [Search](search.md): Provides `/search` endpoint to search users.

You should check out each of them to understand how to use them.

Commit message:

Chore: change Name from `AuthX` to `authx` ✨ (#131)
* docs: Fix UpperCase

* chore: Fix Code Examples (UpperCase)

* docs: change `AuthX` to `authx`

* CI: Add Build Docs for PR

docs/configuration/routers/index.md, after:

# Routers

We're almost there! The last step is to configure the `authx` object that will wire the user manager, the authentication classes and let us generate the actual **API routes**.

## Configure `authx`

Configure `authx` object with all the elements we defined before. More precisely:

* `UserManager`: Dependency callable getter to inject the
    user manager class instance. See [UserManager](../core/index.md).
* `auth_backends`: List of authentication backends. See [Authentication](../auth/index.md).
* `user_model`: Pydantic model of a user.
* `UserInRegister` – User model for registering.
* `UserInCreate` – User model for creating.
* `UserInLogin` – User model for logging in.
* `UserPayload` – User model for payloads.
* `SocialInCreate` – Social User model for creating.

```py
from authx import Authentication

Authentication = Authentication(
    debug=True,
    base_url="http://localhost:8000",
    site="http://localhost:8000",
    database_name="authx",
    callback_url="http://localhost:8000/callback",
    access_cookie_name="access_token",
    refresh_cookie_name="refresh_token",
    private_key="private.pem",
    public_key="public.pem",
    access_expiration=3600,
    refresh_expiration=86400,
    smtp_username=None,
    smtp_host=None,
    smtp_password=None,
    smtp_tls=False,
    display_name="authx",
    recaptcha_secret=None,
    social_creds=None,
    social_providers=None,
)
```

__Note:__ We gonna discuss what we define in `Authentication` Next.

!!! info
    We Have also an other configuration option, `authx` and `User`.

## Available routers

This helper class will let you generate useful routers to setup the authentication system. Each of them is **optional**, so you can pick only the one that you are interested in! Here are the routers provided:

* [Authentication](authentication.md): Provides `/login` and `/logout` also `/register` and some other useful endpoints based on [Authentication Provider](../auth/index.md).
* [Administration](.administration.md): Provides all the services that an Admin can use to manage the users. (`/blacklist`, `/blackout`, `kick`)
* [Password](password.md): Provides `/forgot` and `/reset` and `/set` endpoints to reset the password.
* [social](social.md): Provides `/social` and `/social/callback` endpoints to login with social networks, relate to [Social Provider](../social/index.md).
* [Search](search.md): Provides `/search` endpoint to search users.

You should check out each of them to understand how to use them.
