docs/contributing.md, before:

# Development - Contributing 🐣

First, you might want to see the basic ways to [help AuthX and get help](help.md)

## Developing

If you already cloned the repository and you know that you need to deep dive in the code, here are some guidelines to set up your environment.

### Virtual environment with `venv`

You can create a virtual environment in a directory using Python's `venv` module:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ python -m venv env
```

</div>

That will create a directory `./env/` with the Python binaries and then you will be able to install packages for that isolated environment.

### Activate the environment

Activate the new environment with:

=== "Linux, macOS"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ source ./env/bin/activate
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows PowerShell"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ .\env\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows Bash"

    Or if you use Bash for Windows (e.g. <a href="https://gitforwindows.org/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Git Bash</a>):

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ source ./env/Scripts/activate
    ```

    </div>

To check it worked, use:

=== "Linux, macOS, Windows Bash"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ which pip
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows PowerShell"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ Get-Command pip
    ```

    </div>

If it shows the `pip` binary at `env/bin/pip` then it worked. 🎉

!!! tip
    Every time you install a new package with `pip` under that environment, activate the environment again.

    This makes sure that if you use a terminal program installed by that package (like `pre-commit`), you use the one from your local environment and not any other that could be installed globally.

### Setuptools and wheel | Twine

**AuthX** use Traditional Methods <a href="https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/" class="external-link" target="_blank">packaging-projects</a> to build, package and publish the project.

After activating the environment as described above, install the `setuptools` and `wheel` and `Twine` packages:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install setuptools wheel twine
```
</div>

### Development Dependencies

Now lets install all the package that you need to develop AuthX:

=== "Terminal"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ pip install -r requirements.dev.txt
    ```
    </div>

It will install all the dependencies in your local environment.

#### Including

The `requirements.dev.txt` file contains all the dependencies that you need to develop AuthX, which are:

* The Base Dependencies (`requirements.txt`) - the ones that are needed to run AuthX. [See Installation](installation.md).
* This one include also:
    * `uvicorn` - the web server that runs AuthX.
    * `bumpversion` - the tool that helps you to bump the version of AuthX.

### Format

For Providing a good and consistent experience, we recommend using [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) - a tool that runs a set of checks before you commit your code.

#### Git Hooks

First you need to install the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) tool, which is installed before with the Dev Dependencies.

Now, Install pre-commit hooks in your `.git/hooks/` directory:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pre-commit install
```

</div>

This One will provide a Linting Test before you commit your code.

#### Including

The `.pre-commit-config.yaml` Contains the following configuration with the Linting Packages.

* `pre-commit-hooks` - Some out-of-the-box hooks for pre-commit.
* `isort` - A tool to sort imports.
* `flake8` - A tool to check Python code for errors.
* `mirrors-autoflake` - Mirror of the autoflake package for pre-commit.
* `black` - A tool to format Python code.

## Docs

First, make sure you set up your environment as described above, that will install all the requirements.

The documentation uses <a href="https://www.mkdocs.org/" class="external-link" target="_blank">MkDocs</a>.

All the documentation is in Markdown format in the directory `./docs`.

### Including

To Build AuthX Documentation we need the following packages, which are:

* `mkdocs` - The tool that builds the documentation.
* `mkdocs-material` - The theme that AuthX uses.
* `mkdocs-markdownextradata-plugin` - The plugin that allows to add extra data to the documentation.

### Translations

Help with translations is VERY MUCH appreciated! And it can't be done without the help from the community. 🌎 🚀

Here are the steps to help with translations.

#### Tips and guidelines

* Check the currently <a href="https://github.com/yezz123/AuthX/pulls" class="external-link" target="_blank">existing pull requests</a> for your language and add reviews requesting changes or approving them.

!!! tip
    You can <a href="https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request" class="external-link" target="_blank">add comments with change suggestions</a> to existing pull requests.

    Check the docs about <a href="https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-reviews" class="external-link" target="_blank">adding a pull request review</a> to approve it or request changes.

* Check in the <a href="https://github.com/yezz123/AuthX/issues" class="external-link" target="_blank">issues</a> to see if there's one coordinating translations for your language.

* Add a single pull request per page translated. That will make it much easier for others to review it.

For the languages I don't speak, I'll wait for several others to review the translation before merging.

* You can also check if there are translations for your language and add a review to them, that will help me know that the translation is correct and I can merge it.

* Use the same Python examples and only translate the text in the docs. You don't have to change anything for this to work.

* Use the same images, file names, and links. You don't have to change anything for it to work.

* To check the 2-letter code for the language you want to translate you can use the table <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" class="external-link" target="_blank">List of ISO 639-1 codes</a>.

## Testing

The `requirements.dev.txt` file contains all the dependencies that you need to test AuthX, which are:

### Including

* `pytest` - The tool that runs the tests.
* `pytest-asyncio` - The plugin that runs the tests in the background.
* `requests` - The library that makes the requests to the AuthX API.
* `asynctest` - The library that makes the tests asynchronous.

### Generate a Test Report

As we know, the tests are very important to make sure that AuthX works as expected, that why i provide a multi test for and functions to provide a good test.

If you want to generate the test report:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pytest --cov=AuthX/ --cov-report=html
```

</div>

## Docker Build

As you know i provide all actions to build the project in Docker, so you can use it to run the project in a container.

### Commands

Using a Pre-configured Makefile, you can run the following commands:

* `make build` - Build the project.
* `make pull` - Pull the latest changes from the repository, relate to `MongoDB` & `Redis`.
* `make test` - Run the tests in the container.
* `make lint` - Run the linting tests (`pre-commit`) in the container.

Commit message:

fix(docs): fix many minors typos

docs/contributing.md, after:

# Development - Contributing 🐣

First, you might want to see the basic ways to [help AuthX and get help](help.md)

## Developing

If you already cloned the repository and you know that you need to deep dive into the code, here is a guideline to set up your environment:

### Virtual environment with `venv`

You can create a virtual environment in a directory using Python's `venv` module:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ python -m venv env
```

</div>

That will create a directory `./env/` with the python binaries and then you will be able to install packages for that isolated environment.

### Activate the environment

Activate the new environment with:

=== "Linux, macOS"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ source ./env/bin/activate
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows PowerShell"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ .\env\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows Bash"

    Or if you use Bash for Windows (e.g. <a href="https://gitforwindows.org/" class="external-link" target="_blank">Git Bash</a>):

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ source ./env/Scripts/activate
    ```

    </div>

To check it worked, use:

=== "Linux, macOS, Windows Bash"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ which pip
    ```

    </div>

=== "Windows PowerShell"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ Get-Command pip
    ```

    </div>

If it shows the `pip` binary at `env/bin/pip` then it worked. 🎉

!!! tip
    Every time you install a new package with `pip` under that environment, activate the environment again.

    This makes sure that if you use a terminal program installed by that package (like `pre-commit`), you use the one from your local environment and not any other that could be installed globally.

### Setuptools and wheel | Twine

**AuthX** use Traditional Methods <a href="https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/" class="external-link" target="_blank">packaging-projects</a> to build, package and publish the project.

After activating the environment as described above, install the `setuptools` and `wheel` and `Twine` packages:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pip install setuptools wheel twine
```
</div>

### Development Dependencies

Now lets install all the package that you need to develop AuthX:

=== "Terminal"

    <div class="termy">

    ```console
    $ pip install -r requirements.dev.txt
    ```
    </div>

It will install all the dependencies in your local environment.

#### Including

The `requirements.dev.txt` file contains all the dependencies that you need to develop AuthX, which are:

* The Base Dependencies (`requirements.txt`) - the ones that are needed to run AuthX. [See Installation](installation.md).
* This one include also:
    * `uvicorn` - the web server that runs AuthX.
    * `bumpversion` - the tool that helps you to bump the version of AuthX.

### Format

For Providing a good and consistent experience, we recommend using [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) - a tool that runs a set of checks before you commit your code.

#### Git Hooks

First you need to install the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) tool, which is installed before with the Dev Dependencies.

Now, install the pre-commit hooks in your `.git/hooks/` directory:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pre-commit install
```

</div>

This one will provide a linting check before you commit your code.

#### Including

The `.pre-commit-config.yaml` contains the following configuration with the linting packages.

* `pre-commit-hooks` - Some out-of-the-box hooks for pre-commit.
* `isort` - A tool to sort imports.
* `flake8` - A tool to check Python code for errors.
* `mirrors-autoflake` - Mirror of the autoflake package for pre-commit.
* `black` - A tool to format Python code.

## Documentation

First, make sure you set up your environment as described above, that will install all the requirements.

The documentation uses <a href="https://www.mkdocs.org/" class="external-link" target="_blank">MkDocs</a>.

All the documentation is in Markdown format in the directory `./docs`.

### Including

To Build AuthX Documentation we need the following packages, which are:

* `mkdocs` - The tool that builds the documentation.
* `mkdocs-material` - The theme that AuthX uses.
* `mkdocs-markdownextradata-plugin` - The plugin that allows to add extra data to the documentation.

### Translations

Help with translations is VERY MUCH appreciated! And it can't be done without the help from the community. 🌎 🚀

Here are the steps to help with translations.

#### Tips and guideline

* Check the currently <a href="https://github.com/yezz123/AuthX/pulls" class="external-link" target="_blank">existing pull requests</a> for your language and add reviews requesting changes or approving them.

!!! tip
    You can <a href="https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request" class="external-link" target="_blank">add comments with change suggestions</a> to existing pull requests.

    Check the docs about <a href="https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-reviews" class="external-link" target="_blank">adding a pull request review</a> to approve it or request changes.

* Check in the <a href="https://github.com/yezz123/AuthX/issues" class="external-link" target="_blank">issues</a> to see if there's one coordinating translations for your language.

* Add a single pull request per page translated. That will make it much easier for others to review it.

For the languages I don't speak, I'll wait for several others to review the translation before merging.

* You can also check if there are translations for your language and add a review to them, that will help me know that the translation is correct and I can merge it.

* Use the same Python examples and only translate the text in the docs. You don't have to change anything for this to work.

* Use the same images, file names, and links. You don't have to change anything for it to work.

* To check the 2-letter code for the language you want to translate you can use the table <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes" class="external-link" target="_blank">List of ISO 639-1 codes</a>.

## Testing

The `requirements.dev.txt` file contains all the dependencies that you need to test AuthX, which are:

### Including

* `pytest` - The tool that runs the tests.
* `pytest-asyncio` - The plugin that runs the tests in the background.
* `requests` - The library that makes the requests to the AuthX API.
* `asynctest` - The library that makes the tests asynchronous.

### Generate a Test Report

As we know, the tests are very important to make sure that AuthX works as expected, that why i provide a multi test for and functions to provide a good test.

If you want to generate the test report:

<div class="termy">

```console
$ pytest --cov=AuthX/ --cov-report=html
```

</div>

## Docker Build

As you know I provide all actions to build the project in Docker, so you can use it to run the project in a container.

### Commands

Using a pre-configured Makefile, you can run the following commands:

* `make build` - Build the project.
* `make pull` - Pull the latest changes from the repository, relate to `MongoDB` & `Redis`.
* `make test` - Run the tests in the container.
* `make lint` - Run the linting tests (`pre-commit`) in the container.
